Add 1.14 Forge basics (#2)
Mod-DevCafeTeam/MDC-Modding-Wiki: pages/1_14/getting_started/new_project.md

# Getting Started

Setting up a new modding environment is easy to do. You can find the
[Forge documentation here](https://mcforge.readthedocs.io/en/latest/), and specifically the page for
[Getting Started with Forge here](https://mcforge.readthedocs.io/en/latest/gettingstarted/)
(which you'll find is rather similar to this page).

### Getting the MDK

First of all, you'll need to get yourself a Forge MDK from the official Forge site:

http://files.minecraftforge.net/

Ideally, you'll want to get the latest stable version for the Minecraft version you want to create a mod in. These

> tutorials will all be using Minecraft 1.12.2 and the recommended version at time of writing is 1.12.2 - 14.23.5.2768.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tutorials will all be using Minecraft 1.14.4 and the recommended version at time of writing is 1.14.4 - 28.1.0.
```

mod loads fine.

### Editing the build.gradle

Now let's just make sure we configure the `build.gradle` to your mod and get the latest mappings. In that file, you'll
see the following:
```groovy
version = "1.0"
group = "com.yourname.modid" // http://maven.apache.org/guides/mini/guide-naming-conventions.html
archivesBaseName = "modid"
```
These fields are used when you build your mod. The `version` is your mod's version number, so be sure to change this
every time you want to release a new version of your mod.

The `group` is your base package name. Normally this will be basically the package structure of your mod between the
"java" package and your main location where your classes are located. Taking the example mod as an example here, the
structure is `/src/main/java/com/example/examplemod`. In this case, I'd use `com.example.examplemod` as the `group`.
However when you rename the example mod, you'd use a name for the author (probably your own alias or team name) and the
mod ID. For example, for the mod [Sparks Hammers](https://github.com/thebrightspark/SparksHammers) you will find the

> structure is `/src/main/java/brightspark/sparkshammers` so the `group` is set to `brightspark.sparkshammers`.

Reviewer: ... which means it doesn't follow conventions :/

    // Simply re-run your setup task after changing the mappings to update your workspace.
    mappings channel: 'snapshot', version: '20190719-1.14.3'
```
This part defines a few fields used when building your development environment (which we'll get to soon). 

The `mappings` are an important one - these are the MCP mappings version. The mappings are used to convert the hard to
read decompiled class, method and field names in code into much more readable names. Whenever you create a new project
(like this right now!) or update Forge, you should really make sure this is updated to the latest mappings version.
You can get the latest version over at the [MCP Bot exports site](http://export.mcpbot.bspk.rs/). You should always use
the latest stable release for your Minecraft version where possible, otherwise use the latest snapshot. To update you
simply just need to enter the version number into the value as explained in the comments above it.

The rest of the `minecraft` section contains information about the run tasks gradle will generate for your IDE. You 
generally don't need to mess with those.

### Dependencies

```groovy
dependencies {

>     minecraft 'net.minecraftforge:forge:1.14.4-28.1.26'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    minecraft 'net.minecraftforge:forge:1.14.4-28.1.0'
```
Recommended version (over latest)

    // Other stuff
}
```

In this section you will add any dependencies your project may have.
At the beggining the only thing that is added here is the forge version.

If you ever want to update the version of
Forge within your mod, simply update this value.

You may put jars on which you depend on in ./libs or you may define them like so:
```groovy
compile "some.group:artifact:version:classifier"

> compile "some.group:artifact:version"

Reviewer: `compile` is the old way of writing gradle dependencies.
Don't use the `java` gradle plugin but instead use `java-library` (which means `api`/`implementation`/...)
More info in the [docs](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/dependency_management_for_java_projects.html).

Reviewer 2: Hm that was pulled out straight from the latest `build.gradle`

Reviewer 2: Also i don't see the docs mention how do you define optional dependencies at all which is important i think? (Unles you just still use `provided`?)

Reviewer 3: Because optional dependencies are a concept introduced by Forge, not Gradle. Unfortunately I don't know myself, maybe you can find an example addon mod?

Reviewer 2: Asked in the forge discord server, let's what see they'll say

Reviewer 2: Looks like using any of the above is fine :man_shrugging: I guess i'll just have a link to the new docs + an explanation

`build.gradle` adds some values about the author and mod here.

```groovy
jar {
    manifest {
        attributes([
            "Specification-Title": project.name, // This may be different by default but you can change it to project.name
            "Specification-Vendor": "author",
            "Specification-Version": "1", // We are version 1 of ourselves
            "Implementation-Title": project.name,
            "Implementation-Version": "${version}",
            "Implementation-Vendor" :"author",
            "Implementation-Timestamp": new Date().format("yyyy-MM-dd'T'HH:mm:ssZ")
        ])
    }
}
```

As you can see the date, name, and version have been taken care of.
All you have to do is enter your name in the places of `author`

### Using the gradle.properties

To make life easier, you don't have to keep searching through the build.gradle for a few values to change any time you
want to update a version. You can make use of your `gradle.properties` file to collect variables in. You can check out
an example of that in use here in Sparks Hammers:
* [build.gradle](https://github.com/thebrightspark/SparksHammers/blob/1.12/build.gradle)

> * [gradle.properties](https://github.com/thebrightspark/SparksHammers/blob/1.12/gradle.properties)

Reviewer: These examples are 1.12, even Gradle works the same some people might get confused.

            "Implementation-Vendor" :"author",
            "Implementation-Timestamp": new Date().format("yyyy-MM-dd'T'HH:mm:ssZ")
        ])
    }
}
```

As you can see the date, name, and version have been taken care of.
All you have to do is enter your name in the places of `author`

### Using the gradle.properties

To make life easier, you don't have to keep searching through the build.gradle for a few values to change any time you
want to update a version. You can make use of your `gradle.properties` file to collect variables in. You can check out
an example of that in use here in Sparks Hammers:
* [build.gradle](https://github.com/thebrightspark/SparksHammers/blob/1.12/build.gradle)
* [gradle.properties](https://github.com/thebrightspark/SparksHammers/blob/1.12/gradle.properties)

!! NOTE !!
Although the above examples are from a 1.12 mod, Gradle still works the same in this case.

### Setting up your workspace

Once you have everything extracted out of the MDK and configured for your project, you can now build your workspace.

All you have to do is import the project into your IDE of choice
and generate the launch tasks for your IDE.

> * In Intellij Idea you can do this using the `File -> Open...` menu option and selecting your project directory. To generate to tasks you

Reviewer 3: Probably worth writing here that you should ideally open the `build.gradle` and IDEA will actually import it as a Gradle project straight away. Then you can use the Gradle window to run the task.

have to run `gradlew genIntellijRuns`

!! NOTE !!

You might need to manually set the module to `MODNAME.main` in your
launch configurations

* For Eclipse you have to run `gradlew genEclipseRuns`

### Building your mod

> Once you're ready to build your mod, you can simply run `gradlew build`.

Reviewer 3: As above, if you've imported the Gradle project in IDEA, you can use the Gradle window to run the task
